vision data and supported tasks and formats (#2291)
deepchecks/deepchecks: docs/source/user-guide/vision/supported_tasks_and_formats.rst

.. _supported_tasks_and_formats:

===========================
Supported Tasks and Formats
===========================

> In order to accurately analyze the images, labels and predictions provided in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to analyze the images, labels and predictions provided in the
```

:doc:`VisionData object </user-guide/vision/vision_data_class>`,

> they must be provided in deepchecks accepted format. In this section we will describe the supported formats

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they must be provided in the accepted deepchecks format. In this section we will describe the formats
```

for each supported task type.

> The data formats are validated at the creation of the VisionData object based on the first batch of data. However,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The VisionData object automatically validates your data formats when initialized, using the first batch of data. However,
```

> in addition to the automatic validations, it is also important to make sure visually that the data was provided in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can always make sure the data was provided in the correct format by visualizing it, using 
```

Reviewer 2: Now I'm sad :(

Honestly I think it was better - no need to repeat the automatic validations now (because of the previous change in the sentence). And moreover, I think it's better to say that "you can if you want" rather than "it's important to" as it's not necessarily important to.

> correct format via the :func:`head <deepchecks.vision.VisionData.head>` functionality.

Reviewer: Also a good place to mention that data must be shuffled by the user.

Reviewer 2: Weird place for it IMO

> correct format via the :func:`head <deepchecks.vision.VisionData.head>` functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the :func:`head <deepchecks.vision.VisionData.head>` functionality.
```

> Common Formats

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Accepted Formats
```

Reviewer 2: Yeah, sorry. Anyway I think the word "common" is not clear enough here as it's not always used in this context. But can't currently think of another phrase

==============
All types of data are loaded in a batch by batch manner meaning that each data input contain

> information about several samples. In order to support this, all data inputs are expected to be provided

Reviewer: Should rephrase this a bit, a bit hard to follow (maybe concrete examples? A list with each entry containing the label for the sample?)

Author: rephrased

as either an iterable in which each entry is the data for a single sample or as a high dimension array or tensor in

> which the first dimension is the number of samples.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to rephrase:

Batch Format
---------------
As the data is received in batches, deepchecks expects each batch to contain an iterable of length N (which represents the number of samples) for each data type (images, labels and predictions). 
Specifically, the accepted format of a batch is a dictionary with the following keys: 'images', 'labels', 'predictions' and 'image_identifiers', each value is an iterable of objects in the correct format.
Except for 'images', all keys are optional, but some checks won't be able to run without labels or predictions, and some check visualizations won't work without image_identifiers.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what I wrote is correct (the last sentence)

Image Format
------------
Each image in the batch can either be a `PIL image object <https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/Image.html>`_

> or a ``[H, W, C]`` 3D array (can be either numpy or a tensor).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or a ``[H, W, C]`` 3D array (can be either numpy or a tensor), where H, W and C represent the height, width and channel of the image.
```

For the array format, the first dimension must be the image y axis, the second being the image x axis, and the

> third being the number of channels.

Reviewer 2: Redundant

> The numbers in the array should be integers in the range [0, 255]. Color images should be in RGB format and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The array values should be integers in the range [0, 255]. Color images should be in RGB format and
```

have 3 channels, while grayscale images should have 1 channel.

Image Identifiers Format
------------------------
Image identifiers is a mechanism that allow identifying relevant images in the check results so that they can
be easily retrieved from the original dataset by the user. Common uses for this can be identifying images by
the path to the image or by their name or id in a database.

> Image identifiers need to be provided as an iterable of strings.

Reviewer 2: Need to explain why the user should bother with these

> 

Reviewer 2: Would add a sentence that says:

"As label and prediction format are dependent on the specific task type, the following sections will explain the accepted format per task type:"

Or something like that.

Reviewer 2: Then maybe before, in the beginning of this section? I feel like it's missing.

.. _supported_tasks__classification:
Classification
==============
Label Format
------------

> Classification label per sample is expected to be provided as either a string or an int representing the class index.

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's add an example?

Prediction Format
-----------------
Classification prediction per sample should be **prediction probabilities** per class, meaning that it should be an

> iterable of floats in the range [0, 1] with length equal to the number of classes.

Reviewer: It's an iterable of iterables of floats. 
Also worth giving an example (a numpy array of shape (n_sample, n_classes))

Author: I think you misread, will add an example

Reviewer: Maybe re-write so that " per sample" appears after "per class"?

.. _supported_tasks__object_detection:
Object Detection
================
Label Format
------------
Object detection label per sample should be an iterable of bounding boxes. Each bounding box should be an iterable
of 5 elements in the following order: ``(class_id, x_min, y_min, w, h)``.

    ``x_min`` and ``y_min`` are the coordinates (in pixels) of the **top left corner** of the bounding box, ``w``
    and ``h`` are the width and height of the bounding box (in pixels) and ``class_id`` is the class id of the label.

For example, labels of a batch containing 2 samples, where the first sample has a single bounding box and the second
sample has 2 bounding boxes, should be provided as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    [

>         [(1, 50, 20, 9.4, 5.5)],

Reviewer: Use ints (round numbers) for coordinates.

Author: the floats are for hight and weight

Reviewer: still should be ints

        [(3, 12, 23, 3.4, 9.5), (5, 42, 63, 9.4, 11.5)]
    ]

Prediction Format
-----------------
Object detection prediction per sample should be an iterable of predicted bounding boxes and their corresponding

> confidence provided by the model. Each bounding box should be an iterable of 6 elements in the following order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
confidence scores provided by the model. Each bounding box should be an iterable of 6 elements in the following order:
```

``(x_min, y_min, w, h, confidence, class_id)``.

    ``x_min``, ``y_min``, ``w`` and ``h`` represent the bounding box location as above,
    ``confidence`` is the confidence score given by

>     the model to bounding box and ``class_id`` is the class id predicted by the model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    the model to the bounding box and ``class_id`` is the class id predicted by the model.
```
Also, is it the confidence of the bounding box or of the class?

For example, predictions of a batch containing 2 samples, where the first sample has two predicted bounding boxes and
the second one has no predicted bounding boxes, should be provided as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    [

>         [(50, 20, 9.4, 5.5, 0.8, 3), (50, 20, 9.4, 5.5, 0.4, 1)],

Reviewer: int coordinates

        []
    ]

.. _supported_tasks__segmentation:
Semantic Segmentation
=====================
Label Format
------------

> Semantic segmentation label per sample should be an array of shape ``[H, W]`` where ``H`` and ``W`` are the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Semantic segmentation label should be an array of shape ``[H, W]`` where ``H`` and ``W`` are the
```
Also in the others

the prediction per sample format is an array of shape ``[C, H, W]`` where ``H`` and ``W`` are the height
and width of the corresponding image, and ``C`` is the number of possible classes
such that each channel corresponds to a class_id.

Note that the values of dimension C are the probabilities for each class and as such for each pixel the sum of the
probabilities should be 1.

Other Tasks
===========
For other tasks, the label and prediction formats are not validated nor used by the different checks.
However, there are many checks that require only the images themself. Few examples for such checks include:
:doc:`Image Property Outliers </checks_gallery/vision/data_integrity/plot_image_property_outliers.html>`,
:doc:`Image Dataset Drift </checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_image_dataset_drift.html>` and
:doc:`Image Property Drift </checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_image_property_drift.html>`.

In addition it is possible to generate custom metrics and properties for the predictions and labels
provided and run additional checks. For more information on how to do so, see the

> :doc:`custom task tutorial </user-guide/vision/tutorials/custom_task_tutorial>`.

Reviewer 2: Would maybe rephrase to something that encourages action, such as:

For "other" tasks, you can still use all of the deepchecks checks and suites! However, for some checks you will need to define a specific performance metric and label properties, as detailed in the ..."

And maybe put this before saying which checks do work?

.. _supported_tasks_and_formats:

===========================
Supported Tasks and Formats
===========================

In order to analyze the images, labels and predictions provided in the
:doc:`VisionData object </user-guide/vision/vision_data_class>`,
they must be provided the accepted deepchecks format. In this section we will describe the supported formats
for each supported task type.

The VisionData object automatically validates your data formats when initialized, using the first batch of data. However,
in addition to the automatic validations, it is also important to make sure visually that the data was provided in the
correct format via the :func:`head <deepchecks.vision.vision_data.VisionData.head>` functionality.

.. note::
    In order to properly function, in addition for the data being in the correct format,
    the data must also be loaded in a **shuffled** manner.

Common Formats
==============
Batch General Format
--------------------
Each batch, which is the output the :doc:`batch loader </user-guide/vision/vision_data_class>`,

> required to be a :class:`dictionary <deepchecks.vision.vision_data.utils.BatchOutputFormat>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is required to be a :class:`dictionary <deepchecks.vision.vision_data.utils.BatchOutputFormat>`
```

> with keys for each provided data input: images, labels and so on.

Reviewer 2: why not say exactly what keys?

> Since each data input represent multiple samples,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since each data input represents multiple samples,
```

all data inputs are expected to be provided

> as either an iterable in which each entry represent a single sample or as a high dimension array or tensor in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as either an iterable in which each entry represents a single sample, or a high dimension array or tensor in
```

Semantic Segmentation
=====================
Label Format
------------
Semantic segmentation label per sample should be an array of shape ``[H, W]`` where ``H`` and ``W`` are the
height and width of the corresponding image, and its values are the true class_ids of
the corresponding pixels in that image.
Note that the array should be 2D, as the number of channels on the original image are irrelevant to the label.

Prediction Format
-----------------
Semantic segmentation prediction per sample should be **predicted probabilities** per class per pixel. Specifically,
the prediction per sample format is an array of shape ``[C, H, W]`` where ``H`` and ``W`` are the height
and width of the corresponding image, and ``C`` is the number of possible classes
such that each channel corresponds to a class_id.

Note that the values of dimension C are the probabilities for each class and as such for each pixel the sum of the
probabilities should be 1.

Other Tasks
===========
For other tasks, there is no specific format required for the labels and predictions and their format is
not validated. There are two ways in which Deepchecks can provide value for these sort of tasks:

> The quick option - Run checks that require only the images themself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The quick option - Run checks that require only the images themselves.
```

Few examples for such checks include:
:doc:`Image Property Outliers </checks_gallery/vision/data_integrity/plot_image_property_outliers.html>`,
:doc:`Image Dataset Drift </checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_image_dataset_drift.html>` and
:doc:`Image Property Drift </checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_image_property_drift.html>`.

> The advanced option - Generate custom metrics and properties for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The advanced option - add custom metrics and properties for the
```
"generate" is a bit odd here IMO
